chore: add sources (#1)
M6Web/hsdo: README.md

# haproxy-service-discovery-orchestrator
Orchestrate Service Discovery for HAProxy

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

We are currently using HSDO to load-balance our VOD traffic, between CDNs and our origins.
We have tested this platform with tens of HAProxy instances, reaching up to 200Gbps traffic.
We are using Spot instances to run HAProxy with HSDO, using multiple AZs, but by optimizing traffic through AZ (because inter-AZ traffic is extremely expensive).

```

- ASG or Consul is listing available servers
- HAProxy SDO Server gets servers from ASG, sort them, and save them in DynamoDB

> - HAproxy SDO Clients get sorted servers from DynamoDB and send configuration to HAProxy Runtime API

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- HAproxy SDO Clients gets sorted servers from DynamoDB and sends configuration to HAProxy Runtime API
```

> - HAProxy server have all same configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- All HAProxy instances have the same configuration
```

![HSDO Simple](doc/hsdo-simple.png)

## Why HSDO

> HSDO allow to use HAProxy in AWS when LoadBalancer capabilities are insufficient to your needs. HSDO implements ordered backend server lists to use fonctionnalities as consistent hashing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
AWS load balancers don't allow algorithms different from round robin.
HSDO allows to use HAProxy in front of one or multiple AutoScalingGroups on AWS.
HSDO implements ordered backend servers lists to use functionalities like consistent hashing, which makes it possible to use all the power of HAProxy, but on AWS.

By design, HSDO is able to run several HAProxy instances, to load balance from ten to hundreds of backend servers and separate traffic depending of AvailabilityZone.
It is reliable and fault tolerant, as each HAProxy server updates its configuration asynchronously from a DynamoDB table.

We wanted a very simple and efficient implementation for HSDO, which we didn't find in Consul.
```

## Prerequisities

This project is using pipenv. If you don't have it, please see [here](https://github.com/pypa/pipenv#installation).

You need to have `AWS_PROFILE`, `AWS_DEFAULT_REGION` setted and to be authenticated to access your DynamoDB table.

## Usage

In project directory:

```sh
pipenv install
pipenv shell
python3 src/main.py --[client|server] (--[debug]) (--[help])
```

## Configuration

> All configuration can be setted through file or environment variables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Parameters can be defined through a config file or environment variables.
```

Environment variables will overwrite `conf/env.yaml`.

### Server Only

> `SERVER_ASG_NAMES`: List of names of ASG where to find your target servers. May be a list, separated with comma. If `aws` mode enabled. Default to ` `.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`SERVER_ASG_NAMES`: List of ASG names where to find target servers (EC2 instances for which HAProxy will load balance traffic). May be a list, separated with comma. If `aws` mode enabled. Default to ` `.
```

> `CONSUL_API_URL`: Consul Address where to find your target servers. If `consul` mode enabled. Default to ` `.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`CONSUL_API_URL`: Consul address where to find your target servers. If `consul` mode enabled. Default to ` `.
```

> `CONSUL_SERVICE_NAME`: Consul service name where to find your target servers. May be a list, separated with comma. If `consul` mode enabled. Default to ` `.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`CONSUL_SERVICE_NAME`: Consul service name where to find target servers. May be a list, separated with comma. If `consul` mode enabled. Default to ` `.
```

> `HAPROXY_BACKEND_SERVER_MIN_WEIGHT`: Default to `1`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`HAPROXY_BACKEND_SERVER_MIN_WEIGHT`: Minimum weight of a newly added backend server. Default to `1`.
```

> `HAPROXY_BACKEND_SERVER_MAX_WEIGHT`: Default to `10`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`HAPROXY_BACKEND_SERVER_MAX_WEIGHT`: Maximum weight of a backend server. Default to `10`.
```

> `HAPROXY_BACKEND_SERVER_INCREASE_WEIGHT`: Default to `1`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`HAPROXY_BACKEND_SERVER_INCREASE_WEIGHT`: Defines the level of increase in the weight of the newly added servers. Every 'HAPROXY_BACKEND_SERVER_INCREASE_WEIGHT_INTERVAL', the weight of a new server will be increased by this value. Default to `1`.
```

> `HAPROXY_BACKEND_SERVER_INCREASE_WEIGHT_INTERVAL`: In seconds, time between each weight increasing. For example, if we want to increase weight from 1 to 10 every 30 seconds, we need to wait for 5min. Default to `30`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`HAPROXY_BACKEND_SERVER_INCREASE_WEIGHT_INTERVAL`: In seconds, time between each weight increasing. For example, if we want a new server to have its target weight 5mns after it has been added to the backend, going from weight 1 to 10, we would use interval 30: 30s interval, 10 times between 1 and 10: 300secs. Default to `30`.
```

`SERVER_MODE`: Can be `aws` or `consul`. Default to ` `.

### Client Only

> `CLIENT_ASG_NAMES`: List of names of ASG where servers are. May be a list, separated with comma. If `aws` mode enabled. Default to ` `.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`CLIENT_ASG_NAMES`: List of ASG names, running HAProxy, where HSDO client is also running. May be a list, separated with comma. If `aws` mode enabled. Default to ` `.
```

> `HAPROXY_SOCKET_PATH`: HAProxy socket to use [Runtime API](https://cbonte.github.io/haproxy-dconv/2.0/management.html#9.3). Default to `/var/run/haproxy/admin.sock`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`HAPROXY_SOCKET_PATH`: HAProxy socket to use [Runtime API](https://cbonte.github.io/haproxy-dconv/2.2/management.html#9.3). Default to `/var/run/haproxy/admin.sock`.
```

`CONSUL_API_URL`: Consul address where to find your target servers. If `consul` mode enabled. Default to ` `.

`CONSUL_SERVICE_NAME`: Consul service name where to find target servers. May be a list, separated with comma. If `consul` mode enabled. Default to ` `.

`HAPROXY_BACKEND_SERVER_MIN_WEIGHT`: Default to `1`.

`HAPROXY_BACKEND_SERVER_MAX_WEIGHT`: Default to `10`.

`HAPROXY_BACKEND_SERVER_INCREASE_WEIGHT`: Default to `1`.

`HAPROXY_BACKEND_SERVER_INCREASE_WEIGHT_INTERVAL`: In seconds, time between each weight increasing. For example, if we want to increase weight from 1 to 10 every 30 seconds, we need to wait for 5min. Default to `30`.

`SERVER_MODE`: Can be `aws` or `consul`. Default to ` `.

### Client Only

`CLIENT_ASG_NAMES`: List of names of ASG where servers are. May be a list, separated with comma. If `aws` mode enabled. Default to ` `.

`HAPROXY_SOCKET_PATH`: HAProxy socket to use [Runtime API](https://cbonte.github.io/haproxy-dconv/2.2/management.html#9.3). Default to `/var/run/haproxy/admin.sock`.

`HAPROXY_BACKEND_NAME`: HAProxy backend name. Default to ` `.

`HAPROXY_BACKEND_BASE_NAME`: HAProxy backend base name for server template. Default to ` `.

> `HAPROXY_FALLBACK_BACKEND_NAME`: HAProxy fallback backend name. Needed by `AZ_LIMITER` Default to ` `.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`HAPROXY_FALLBACK_BACKEND_NAME`: HAProxy fallback backend name. Needed by `AZ_LIMITER`, when restricting traffic by AZ. If defined, allows HAProxy to use this fallback backend, if available instances in main backend is lower than ASG minimum (I.E: backend servers have crashed, we may still want to send traffic to available servers even if not in the same AZ). Default to ` `.
```

Author: Already redefined

# haproxy-service-discovery-orchestrator
Orchestrate Service Discovery for HAProxy

> We are currently using HSDO to load-balance our VOD traffic, between CDNs and our origins.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We are currently using HSDO to load-balance our VOD traffic, between CDNs and our origins.
CDNs --> NLB -> HAProxy (with HSDO) --> origins

Using an NLB is optional if HAProxy instances are running in a public VPC subnet.
You'll need to take care of updating DNS records if using public HAProxy endpoints (failures, Spot reclaims, etc.)

```

Author: ```suggestion
We are currently using HSDO to load-balance our VOD traffic, between CDNs and our origins.

CDNs --> NLB -> HAProxy (with HSDO) --> origins

Using an NLB is optional if HAProxy instances are running in a public VPC subnet.

You'll need to take care of updating DNS records if using public HAProxy endpoints (failures, Spot reclaims, etc.)

```

We have tested this platform with tens of HAProxy instances, reaching up to 200Gbps traffic.
We are using Spot instances to run HAProxy with HSDO, using multiple AZs, but by optimizing traffic through AZ (because inter-AZ traffic is extremely expensive).

- ASG or Consul is listing available servers
- HAProxy SDO Server gets servers from ASG, sort them, and save them in DynamoDB
- HAproxy SDO Clients get sorted servers from DynamoDB and send configuration to HAProxy Runtime API
- All HAProxy instances have the same configuration

![HSDO Simple](doc/hsdo-simple.png)

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have one server, and as much clients as haproxy load balancers.

```

`SERVER_MODE`: Can be `aws` or `consul`. Default to ` `. `consul` is higly experimental, it probably doesn't work. Only `aws` mode is prod ready.

### Client Only

Configuration that is specific to each HSDO Client, next to HAProxy.

`CLIENT_HAPROXY_SOCKET_PATH`: HAProxy socket to use [Runtime API](https://cbonte.github.io/haproxy-dconv/2.0/management.html#9.3). Default to `/var/run/haproxy/admin.sock`.

`CLIENT_HAPROXY_BACKEND_NAME`: HAProxy default backend name. Default to ` `.

`CLIENT_HAPROXY_BACKEND_BASE_NAME`: HAProxy default backend base name for server template. Default to ` `.

`CLIENT_HAPROXY_BACKEND_SERVER_PORT`: Port of target servers. Default to `80`.

HAProxy default backend configuration can be seen in `haproxy.cfg`:
```
backend {{ CLIENT_HAPROXY_BACKEND_NAME }}
server-template  {{ CLIENT_HAPROXY_BACKEND_BASE_NAME }} 1-{{ HAPROXY_BACKEND_SERVERS_LIST_SIZE }} 127.0.0.2:{{ CLIENT_HAPROXY_BACKEND_SERVER_PORT }} check disabled
```

For example, with :
```
backend http-back
server-template mywebapp 1-10 127.0.0.2:80 check disabled
```

> You will have this kind of statistique page : 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You will have this kind of statistic page : 
```

![](doc/backend-servers-list.png)

### Both

`INTERVAL`: Interval between each loop for client/server. Default to `1`.

`HAPROXY_BACKEND_SERVERS_LIST_SIZE`: As max range describe [here](https://cbonte.github.io/haproxy-dconv/2.0/configuration.html#4-server-template). Default to `10`.

`DEBUG`: To enable debug log. Default to `false`.

`DYNAMODB_TABLE_NAME`: Name of dynamodb table. Default to ` `.

`AWS_DEFAULT_REGION`: default region needed for dynamodb access. Default to ` `.

`EXPORTER_PORT`: port for prometheus exporter. Default to `6789`

## Dedicated ASG Configuration (AWS Only)

HSDO Client can be configured to follow specific ASGs that are present in `SERVER_ASG_NAMES`.

For example, if `SERVER_ASG_NAMES` contains `ASG1,ASG2,ASG3`, `CLIENT_ASG_NAMES` may follow `ASG2`. 

> This is usefull if you want to split traffic per AZ for example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is usefull if you want to split traffic per AZ.
```

If the target's ASG name is not in `CLIENT_ASG_NAMES`, then the target is put in fallback HAProxy backend.

If needed, ASG name in `CLIENT_ASG_NAMES` can alse be added in fallback HAProxy backend with `CLIENT_ALL_SERVERS_IN_FALLBACK_BACKEND` enabled.

Fallback from default HAProxy backend to fallback HAProxy backend are not handled by HSDO Client.

### Client only

`CLIENT_DEDICATED_ASG`: HSDO Client will use `CLIENT_ASG_NAMES` to configure default HAProxy backend, and put the other ones in fallbackend HAProxy backend. Default to `false`.

`CLIENT_ASG_NAMES`: List of ASG that HSDO Client will use in default HAProxy backend. May be a list, separated with comma. Needed with `CLIENT_DEDICATED_ASG`. Default to ` `.

`CLIENT_HAPROXY_FALLBACK_BACKEND_NAME`: HAProxy fallback backend name. Needed with `CLIENT_DEDICATED_ASG`. Default to ` `.

`CLIENT_HAPROXY_FALLBACK_BACKEND_BASE_NAME`: HAProxy fallback backend base name for server template. Needed with `CLIENT_DEDICATED_ASG`. Default to ` `.

`CLIENT_ALL_SERVERS_IN_FALLBACK_BACKEND`: to put also all default HAProxy backend servers in the fallback HAProxy backend. Default to `false`.

## DynamoDB

> What dynamodb table should look like :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
What dynamodb table should look like (terraform code):
```

# haproxy-service-discovery-orchestrator
Orchestrate Service Discovery for HAProxy.

We are currently using HSDO to load-balance our VOD traffic, between CDNs and our origins.

CDNs --> NLB -> HAProxy (with HSDO) --> origins

Using an NLB is optional if HAProxy instances are running in a public VPC subnet.

You'll need to take care of updating DNS records if using public HAProxy endpoints (failures, Spot reclaims, etc.)

We have tested this platform with tens of HAProxy instances, reaching up to 200Gbps traffic.

We are using Spot instances to run HAProxy with HSDO, using multiple AZs, but by optimizing traffic through AZ (because inter-AZ traffic is extremely expensive).

We are currently running it along with HAProxy 2.2.

- ASG or Consul is listing available servers
- HAProxy SDO Server gets servers from ASG, sort them, and save them in DynamoDB
- HAproxy SDO Clients get sorted servers from DynamoDB and send configuration to HAProxy Runtime API
- All HAProxy instances have the same configuration

![HSDO Simple](doc/hsdo-simple.png)

> We have one server, and as much clients as haproxy load balancers.

Author: ```suggestion

We have one server, and as much clients as haproxy load balancers.
```
